OSDOCS-12851: Documented the 4.15.40 z-stream release notes (#85919)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-15-release-notes.adoc

For any {product-title} release, always review the instructions on xref:../updating/updating_a_cluster/updating-cluster-web-console.adoc#updating-cluster-web-console[updating your cluster] properly.
====

//4.15.40
[id="ocp-4-15-40_{context}"]
=== RHSA-2024:10839 - {product-title} 4.15.40 bug fix and security update

Issued: 12 December 2024

{product-title} release 4.15.40, which includes security updates, is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in this update is documented in the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2024:10839[RHSA-2024:10839] advisory. The RPM packages that are included in this update are provided by the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2024:10842[RHBA-2024:10842] advisory.

Space precluded documenting all of the container images for this release in the advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release info 4.15.40 --pullspecs
----

[id="ocp-4-15-40-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== Bug fixes

> * Previously, the Single-Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) Operator did not expire the acquired lease during the Operator's shutdown operation. This impacted a new instance of the Operator, because the new instance had to wait for the lease to expire before the new instance was operational. With this release, an update to the Operator shutdown logic ensures that the Operator expires the lease when the Operator is shutting down. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43361[*OCPBUGS-43361*])

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, when you used the Agent-based Installer to install a cluster on a node that had an incorrect date, the cluster installation failed. With this release, a patch is applied to the Agent-based Installer live ISO time synchronization. The patch configures the `/etc/chrony.conf` file with the list of additional Network Time Protocol (NTP) servers, so that you can set any of these additional NTP servers in the `agent-config.yaml` without experiencing a cluster installation issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45207[*OCPBUGS-45207*])

Author: Added "the patch fixes the date issue".

> * Previously, {hcp}-based clusters were unable to authenticate through the `oc login` command. The web browser displayed an error when it attepted to retrieve the the token after selecting *Display Token*. with this release, `cloud.ibm.com` and other cloud-based endpoints are no longer proxied and authentication is successful. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44278[*OCPBUGS-44278*])

Author: :heavy_check_mark:

> * Previously, the Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) for {ibm-cloud-title} currently only checks the first group of subnets (50) when searching for subnet details by name. With this release, the search provides pagination support to search all subnets. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43675[*OCPBUGS-43675*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the Messaging Application Programming Interface (MAPI) for {ibm-cloud-title} only checked the first group of subnets (50) when searching for subnet details by name. With this release, the search provides pagination support to search all subnets. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-43675[*OCPBUGS-43675*])
```

Author: :heavy_check_mark:
